# Detection-and-Segmentation-of-Mental-Foramen

The precise positioning of the Mental Foramen (MF) assists forensic dentistry, in identifying the position of MF using orthopantomography (OPG) radiographs. In this research topic, we have applied a range of deep learning convolution neural networks (CNNs) architectures to a dataset of 702 OPG radiographs, for the detection and segmentation of MF. The study on MF focused for more than 3 decades on medical scrutiny and still plenty more to do in future. Lack of availability of skillful specialists and their interest in this topic to study to build an Artificial Intelligent (AI) based engine that can revamp the performance of detection and segmentation of MF. According to my research knowledge, this area is untouched by scientists, however, developing an AI-based engine is necessary to elevate medical dentistry and various medico-legal purposes to increase productivity.

The data was collected from the oral medicine and radiology department of King Georgeâs Medical University to perform this study. Mostly in the dataset MF location is in line with the second premolar. To perform this study 5 CNN models (U-Net, U-Net++, Res U-Net, Res U-Net++, and DeepLabV3) were chosen with high proficiency in semantic segmentation. 500 radiographs were chosen randomly for training and accuracy was tested on 202. The best results for circle radiographs in dice similarity coefficient (DSC), intersection over union (IOU), precision, and recall were 97.8 %, 72.0 %, 99.1 %, and 71.1 % respectively. For square radiographs best results in dice similarity coefficient (DSC), intersection over union (IOU), precision, and recall were 98.8 %, 89.7 %, 98.8 %, and 90.0 % respectively. The MF detection with radiographs shows the best results with U-Net CNN, the most used neural network on biomedical OPG radiographs.
